 Addressable RGB LED Strip, 5V (30, 60 or 144 LEDs per meter)
                                      (SK9822)
                                 USER GUIDE


Using the LED strip




The connectors and power wires for our SK9822 and APA102C LED strips. On the left
is the input end of the strip and on the right is the output end.


Each LED strip has three connection points: the input connector, the auxiliary power
wires, and the output connector. These can be seen in the adjacent picture, from left
to right: auxiliary power wires, input connector, and output connector. The strip uses
4-pin JST SM connectors.


The input connector has three male pins inside of a plastic connector shroud, each
separated by about 0.1″. The black wire is ground, the green wire is the signal input,
and the red wire is the power line.


The auxiliary power wires are connected to the input side of the LED strip and consist
of stripped black and red wires. The black wire is ground, and the red wire is the power
line. This provides an alternate (and possibly more convenient) connection point for
LED strip power.




1 https://eckstein-shop.de/
The output connector is on the other end of the strip and is designed to mate with
the input connector of another LED strip to allow LED strips to be chained. The black
wire is ground, the green wire is the signal output, and the red wire is the power line.


All three black ground wires are electrically connected, and all three red power wires
are electrically connected.




A close-up of the JST SM connectors for our SK9822 and APA102C LED strips.


Included hardware

These LED strips ship with flexible silicone brackets and screws. Strips with lengths of
1 meter or greater include five brackets and ten screws per meter. Our 0.5 meter high-
density strip ships with a total of two brackets and four screws. The brackets fit over
the waterproof sheath and can be used to mount the LED strip. The LED strip also
ships on a plastic reel.




2 https://eckstein-shop.de/
                                            The 1m, 2m, and 5m addressable LED
                                            strips include five mounting brackets
                                            per meter; the 0.5m strip includes 2
                                            total brackets.




                                               Controlling an APA102C or SK9822
                                               addressable RGB LED strip with an A-
                                               Star 32U4 Prime SV and powering it
                                               from a 5V wall power adapter.




Connecting the LED strip

To control the LED strip from a microcontroller, two wires from the input connector
should be connected to your microcontroller. The LED strip’s ground (black) should be
connected to ground on the microcontroller, and the LED strip’s signal input line
(green) and clock input line (yellow) should be connected to one of the
microcontroller’s I/O lines. The male pins inside the input connector fit the female
terminations on our premium jumper wires and wires with pre-crimped terminals. If
you are connecting the LED strip to a breadboard or a typical Arduino with female
headers, you would want to use male-female wires.


We generally recommend powering the LED strip using the auxiliary power wires.
Our 5 V wall power adapters work well for powering these LED strips and a DC Barrel




3 https://eckstein-shop.de/
Jack to 2-Pin Terminal Block Adapter can help you make the connection between the
adapter and the strip. However, you might need a wire stripper to strip off some more
insulation from the power wires.


It is convenient that the power wires are duplicated on the input side because you can
connect the auxiliary power wires to your 5 V power supply and then the power will
be available on the data input connector and can be used to power the microcontroller
that is controlling the LED strip. This means you can power the microcontroller and
LED strip from a single supply without having to make branching power connections.


Making a custom cable

If you do not want to use our premium jumper wires to connect to the LED strip’s input,
it is possible to make a custom cable.


One option for making a custom cable is to cut off the unused output connector on
the last LED strip in your chain. This can then be plugged into the input connector of
the first LED strip. The wires on the output and input connectors are 20 AWG, which is
too thick to easily use with our crimp pins and housings, but you could solder the wires
to header pins.


Alternatively, you can get your own JST SM connectors and make a custom cable using
those. The parts you would need to get are the SMP-04V-BC and the SHF-001T-0.8BS,
which are described in the SM Connector datasheet from JST. These can be purchased
from several places such as Heilind. You will also need some 22–28 AWG stranded
wire and a wire stripper. We do not know of a great way to crimp wires onto the JST
crimp pins, but we were able to successfully do it using our narrower crimping
tool and pliers. (With the wider crimping tool, it is hard to avoid crimping parts of the
pin that should not be crimped.) Before crimping, use pliers to bend the outer set of
tabs a little bit so that they can hold on to the insulation of the wire. This makes it
easier to position the crimp pin and the wire. Next, you should be able to follow the




4 https://eckstein-shop.de/
instructions on the crimping tool product page to crimp the wire. After that, you will
probably need to squeeze the crimp pin with pliers to get it to fit into the JST plug
housing. On the other end of the cable you could make a custom connector using
our crimp pins and crimp connector housings, which will allow you to plug it directly
into a breadboard or 0.1″ header pins.


Current draw

Each SK9822 LED draws approximately 50 mA when it is set to full brightness. This
means that for every 30 LEDs you turn on, your LED strip could be drawing as much as
1.5 A. Be sure to select a power source that can handle your strip’s current
requirements.


The SK9822 has built-in constant current control. For any given color command, the
SK6812’s actual color and brightness are largely independent of its supply voltage as
long as the voltage is between 3.5 V and 5 V. This means that voltage drops caused by
the resistance in long power connections are less likely to affect the color or brightness
of the light emitted.


Color

The hue of the light emitted by the SK9822 becomes less red and more green as the 5-
bit brightness value is lowered. Also, the SK9822 has some unit-to-unit variation in the
brightness of its red channel which can be noticed when the 5-bit brightness value is
low but is usually hard to see when the 5-bit brightness value is high.


Chaining

Multiple LED strips can be chained together by connecting input connectors to output
connectors. When strips are chained this way, they can be controlled and powered as
one continuous strip. Please note, however, that as chains get longer, they will require




5 https://eckstein-shop.de/
more power. If this becomes an issue, you can chain the data lines while separately
powering shorter subsections of the chain.




Two addressable SK9822 or APA102C RGB LED strips connected.


We recommend chains of LEDs powered from a single supply not exceed 240 total RGB
LEDs. It is fine to make longer chains with connected data lines, but you should power
each 240-LED section separately. If you are powering each section from a different
power supply, you should cut the power wires between the sections so you do not
short the output of two different power supplies together.


Cutting

The LED strip is divided into segments, with each segment containing one RGB LED.
The strip can be cut apart on the lines between each segment to separate it into usable
shorter sections. The data connection is labeled DO, SDO, DI, or SDI, the clock
connection is labeled CO, CLKO, CI, or CLKI, the positive power connection is labeled
VCC or 5V, and the ground connection is labeled GND. Each LED in the picture below
is at the center of its own segment; there are lines printed on the PCB silkscreen where
the segments can be cut.




6 https://eckstein-shop.de/
Protocol

These LED strips are controlled through an SPI protocol on the data and clock input
lines. The protocol is documented in the SK9822 datasheet (476k pdf), but we describe
it below with some modifications that we have found to work better.


The default, idle state of the clock signal line is low, and the data signal is read on each
rising edge of the clock. To update the LED colors, you need to toggle the clock line
while driving the data line with the value of each bit to send; this can be done through
software (bit-banging), or it can be handled by a hardware SPI peripheral in a
microcontroller. There is no minimum clock frequency, although using a lower
frequency means that it will take longer to update the entire sequence of LEDs, so you
will probably want to use the fastest practical clock speed to get the best update rate.




Control signal timing diagram for the SK9822 and APA102C




7 https://eckstein-shop.de/
The data for each LED is encoded as a sequence of 32 bits (4 bytes) called an LED frame.
The first three bits of the LED frame should be ‘1’. The next 5 bits are a “global”, color-
independent brightness value (0–31) that is applied equally to all three color channels.
The remaining 24 bits are the color values, in BGR (blue-green-red) order. Each color
value uses 8 bits (0–255). The most significant bit of each value is transmitted first.


To update all the LEDs in the panel, you should send a “start frame” of 32 ‘0’ bits, then
a 32-bit “LED frame” for each LED, and finally an “end frame”.


The SK9822 datasheet recommends that the end frame be composed of 32 ‘1’ bits, but
we have found this does not actually ensure that all the LEDs will start displaying their
new colors immediately. This issue can be avoided by using an end frame that consists
of one byte (8 bits) that are all ‘1’, followed by 5+n/165+n/16 bytes (rounded down to
the next whole number) that are all ‘0’. For a more detailed explanation, see the
comments in the source code of our APA102 Arduino library, discussed below.




                       Data format for the SK9822 and APA102C.




8 https://eckstein-shop.de/
If you send fewer LED frames than the number of LEDs on the strip, then some LEDs
near the end of the strip will not be updated, and the LED after the the last LED that
you sent a color to will change to black.


For example, to update all 30 LEDs on a 1-meter strip, you should send a 4-byte start
frame, thirty 4-byte LED frames, and a 7-byte end frame, for a total of 131 bytes. If
multiple strips are chained together with their data connectors, they can be treated as
one longer strip and updated the same way (two chained 1-meter strips behave the
same as one 2-meter strip).


Each RGB LED receives data on its data input line and passes data on to the next LED
using its data output line. The update rate is generally limited only by the speed of the
controller; our Arduino library below can update 60 LEDs in about 1.45 milliseconds,
so it is possible to update nearly 700 LEDs at 60 Hz. However, constant updates are
not necessary; the LED strip can hold its state indefinitely as long as power remains
connected.


  Note: The minimum logic high threshold for the data and clock signals is not
  specified in the SK9822 datasheet, so you should consider using level shifters if
  you want to control these strips from 3.3 V systems. In our tests, we were able to
  control the LEDs directly with 3.3 V signals, but that is not guaranteed to always
  work.



Comparison with SK6812 LED Strips

Like the SK9822, the SK6812 used in some of our LED strips also combines an RGB LED
and driver into a single 5050-size package. However, while the SK6812 uses a one-wire
control interface with strict timing requirements, the SK9822 uses a standard SPI
interface, with separate data and clock signals that lets it accept a wide range of
communication rates; the trade-off is that two I/O lines are required to control it
instead of just one.




9 https://eckstein-shop.de/
The SK9822 provides a 5-bit brightness control that is not available on the SK6812. This
feature can be used to dim the LED strip while still retaining 24-bit color control.


For more information about the ICs, see the SK6812 datasheet (459k pdf) and SK9822
datasheet (1MB pdf).


While our SK6812 strips and SK9822 strips are physically very similar, they
are not functionally compatible with each other. The easiest way to tell them apart is
to look at the strips’ end connectors and the connections between each LED segment:
SK6812 strips have three connections (power, data, and ground), while SK9822 strips
have four (power, clock, data, and ground).


Comparison with APA102C LED Strips

The SK9822 is very similar to the APA102C used in some of our older LED products, and
can be used as a drop-in replacement in many applications. LED products based on the
SK9822 and APA102C can be chained together.


The SK9822 and APA102C ICs have different conditions for when to update the color
that is being shown. The SK9822 basically waits until all the LEDs in the chain have
received their colors, while the APA102C will start displaying its new color almost
immediately after receiving it. The SK9822’s behavior is better because it makes it
easier to update a large number of LEDs without having perceptible latency. However,
if you replace APA102C LEDs with SK9822 LEDs, then, depending on what type of signal
you are sending, you might notice that the SK9822 LEDs are late to update. The
solution is to make sure that you are sending the correct “end frame” as described
above in the “Protocol” section.


The SK9822 has voltage-independent brightness over a wide voltage range, as
described in the “Current draw” section, which means that the colors of the LEDs




10 https://eckstein-shop.de/
should not be affected by a drop in the supply voltage as much as they are on the
APA102C.


The colors generated by the SK9822 look different from the colors generated by the
APA102C. In particular, the SK9822’s red channel is relatively less bright, which makes
it have a blue-green tint when compared to the APA102C. While the APA102C’s
brightness register allows you to control the brightness of each LED independently of
its color, we have noticed that the colors from the SK9822 become less red and more
green as the 5-bit brightness value is lowered. Also, the SK9822 has some unit-to-unit
variation in the brightness of its red channel, which can be noticed when the 5-bit
brightness value is low but is usually hard to see when the 5-bit brightenss value is
high.


The SK9822 can be distinguished from the APA102C by visual inspection. The pictures
below show what each IC looks like:




   Close up of an SK9822, with the             Close up of an APA102C, with the
  red, green, and blue LEDs on at a            red, green, and blue LEDs on at a
           low brightness.                              low brightness.




11 https://eckstein-shop.de/
